- [Instructor] Of all the plugins in the Maven ecosystem,
I find the most value from running specific goals
from the dependency plugin,
and I want to walk through a couple of them with you,
so you too can see the value of them.
Let's go ahead and jump into our terminal,
and let's go into our individual project.
From within this project, I want you
to execute a goal on the dependency plugin,
so dependency:analyze.
We'll allow this goal to run, and what you'll see here
is we actually get a warning section at the very end.
This tells us some very interesting information.
The first one, is that we have a dependency that
we haven't declared that we're actually using.
So the commons io dependency we're using,
but it hasn't been declared in our POM file.
We're getting it transitively, but because we're using it
we should mention it as being compile time.
This is a very good warning to know because
if that dependency goes and changes things
I'm going to have compilation problems.
We also have several dependencies
that are unused but declared.
Now this section can sometimes be a little bit squirrely,
so really have to read and understand your code.
Let's take a look at what this says.
There's a directory studio, a commons io jar,
that we have declared but it's saying that it's unused.
The reason that it's doing that is because
we're using this studio one as what we've defined,
but we're actually using the previous one,
so we actually have it mixed up and we need to go fix that.
The next one is a runtime jar.
Runtime notoriously show up in this section
because it can't do the analysis
of what is actually being used during runtime.
The same way you'll see similar behavior on your test jars,
because it doesn't know what is actually needed
for the test to execute.
So you really have to understand how this section works,
but we have seen an issue in the way
that we've built our POM file,
and that's really the benefit of this plugin.
I actually firmly believe that this should be used
every time you commit before you push those code changes
to the remote repository.
The next one that I want you to run
is Maven dependency resolve.
Now what this plugin is going to do is
it's going to actually give me a list
of everything that I have declared.
And this, again, is a really nice way
to not have to read through the POM file
but get a list of what's included.
You'll see here that we have a line
that we've declared that studio jar.
If we go back and look at our POM file,
you'll see that I did indeed declare the wrong jar,
and I did that on purpose so that it would show up,
because I knew that I would still
get the code that I needed.
Now the last one that we're going to run is really a cool one
when you're trying to figure out how you got something
on your classpath, and that's the dependency tree goal.
Now that that's run, let's take a look
at what this is saying.
What it says is that at the top level
we have a project that is a jar file.
I've declared a couple of jackson jars,
that second one, the jackson databind jar,
also brought in a jar called jackson annotations.
I then went through and I declared a slf4j api jar,
and that directory studio jar, and that brought in
the commons.io jar.
I'm actually using the commons.io not the stuido one,
again that was on purpose.
Keep going down through here you'll see that
the next three jars I've declared and I'm using them,
and that third one, the jupiter api jar,
also brought in several jars of its own.
There's an apiguardian, an opentest4j,
and then the junit platform commons
all came in transitively.
And that third one there, the junit platform commons,
actually came in from the opentest jar,
and that's just by reading this tree.
And you can continue through the rest of that.
But this tree can be an invaluable troubleshooting tool
when trying to figure out how things got on,
why specific versions were selected
when you're dealing with transitive problems,
and, again, it gives you a clear picture of what's going on
when Maven is doing its dependency resolution.
Now there's many other goals to this,
but these are the three big ones
that I find myself using more than anything else.
Take a look at Maven's documentation, however.
You may find other goals of this or any plugin
that you, too, may find very valuable,
and make your productivity at your job
that much more efficient.